FIGURE CAPTIONS

Figure 1.   Transverse sections of skin from a primitive Barbary sheep
            showing (a) medullated central primary fibre (÷150 micron), (b)
            large primary lateral fibres (÷80 micron), (c) groups of fine
            secondary fibres (÷15 micron), (d) primary central follicle which
            has shed its fibre showing collapsed follicle wall, (e)
            medullated primary lateral fibres (÷100 micron).  The follicle
            groups have an average of nine secondaries per primary and the
            `wedge shaped' arrangement of secondaries is a consistent
            feature.  Plate (i) x... magnification.  Plate (ii) x...
            magnification.

Figure 2.   Fibre diameter histogram for the Barbary specimen of Figure 1. 
            Primary fibre frequencies are shown as shaded classes.

Figure 3.   Transverse section of skin from a modern medium Australian Merino
            with no evidence of primitive characteristics, showing (a)
            primary fibres (÷20 micron) (b) secondary fibres (÷ 20 micron). 
            Plate (i) x ...... magnification.

Figure 4.   Fibre diameter histogram for the Merino specimen of Figure 3. 
            Primary fibre frequencies are shown as shaded classes.

Figure 5.   Relationship of primary fibre diameter (Dp) to secondary fibre
            diameter (Ds) across a range of breeds.  Data from Carter (1968)
            and CSIRO (unpublished).  Suggested lines of evolution of the
            major breeds shown --->.  Dp/Ds ratio = 1 shown _._._._._..

         f  Fine Merino
         m  Medium Merino
         s  Strong Merino
         z  Polwarth
         x  Corriedale
         l  Longwool
         d  Downwool
         c  Carpet Wool
         P  Primitive
         w  Wiltshire Horn

Figure 6.   Relationship of primary fibre density (Np) to secondary fibre
            density (Ns) across a range of breeds.  Data from Carter (1968)
            and CSIRO unpublished.  Suggested lines of evolution of major
            breeds shown ---->.  Letter codes for breeds as in Figure 5.

Figure 7.   Tracings of fibre outlines showing changes in follicle group
            arrangement, fibre diameter and medullation through the four
            stages of Merino evolution described in Table 1.  (a) wild sheep,
            (b) primitive domestic sheep, (c) ancient fine/medium wool,
            (d) true fine wool.  Magnification x ....

Figure 8.   Fibre diameter histogram of a hogget ewe from a leading
            Australian Merino stud.  Note the high frequency of large primary
            and secondary fibres and the simultaneous presence of fine
            primary fibres.  The fine primaries are probably regrowth tips
            indicating shedding.


Figure 9.   Transverse section of skin from the Australian Merino specimen of
            Figure 8.  Note (a) central primary follicle from which fibre has
            shed, (b) large lateral primary fibres (÷40 micron), (c) central
            primary fibre with fine fibre regrowth tip (÷8 micron), (d) wedge
            shaped arrangement of secondary follicles extending between the
            row of primary follicles, similar to the ancient fine/medium wool
            in Figure 7.  Plate (i) x... magnification.  Plate (ii) x...
            magnification.  Plate (iii) x... magnification.

Figure 10.  Fibre diameter histogram of a 1985 drop hogget ewe from the ;high
            follicle depth selection line of CSIRO experiment No. 32.  In
            this case most of the large fibres are primaries.

Figure 11.  Transverse section of skin from the specimen of Figure 10.  Note
            (a) large medullated central primary fibre and (b) large non-
            medullated lateral primary fibre.
         .  Plate (i) x... magnification.

Figure 12.  Average birthcoat scores of successive drops in CSIRO experiment
            32. ðÄÄÄð line 1;  ÄÄÄ  2; x---x line 3;  0ÄÄÄ0 unselected
            control line.

Figure 13.  Fibre diameter histogram of a 198? drop hogget ewe from CSIRO
            experiment No. 10.  Note the high frequency of large primary and
            secondary fibres.



Figure 14.  Transverse section of skin from the specimen of Figure 13.  Plate
            (i) shows a trio group with large primary and secondary fibres. 
            Plate (ii) shows (a) a shed primary follicle, and (b) all
            unlabelled arrows show secondary follicles in various stages of
            shedding.   Plate (i) x... magnification.  Plate (ii) x...
            magnification.

Figure 15.  Fibre diameter histogram of a 1976 drop hogget ewe from CSIRO
            experiment No. 1.  Note that the frequency of large primary and
            secondary fibres is not as large as in Figure 13, but is higher
            than in Figure 4.

Figure 16.  A quantitative illustration of predictions which can be made with
            the Moore hypothesis regarding the role of primary follicle size
            in determining comparative development of Merino and primitive
            foetal skin over the period 60-110 days of gestation.  Note that
            this presentation is diagrammatic - relative sizes and shapes of
            follicles are not able to accurately represent reality, and cell
            numbers and division rates should not be taken to be absolute. 
            For a complete explanation see text.
